## Leading Question 
Our goal is to find the shortest path between common Wikipedia articles, where a path is defined as a sequence of hyperlinks between articles similar to the game Wikispeedia. We will construct a directed connected graph using the Wikispeedia navigation paths dataset from the Stanford Large Network Dataset Collection. We plan on using Dijkstra’s Algorithm, breadth first search, and iterative deepening search to implement this project.
## Dataset Acquisition
We will be using the Wikispeedia navigation paths dataset from the Stanford Large Network Dataset Collection.
## Data Format
This dataset contains three files: Navigation paths and Wikipedia hyperlink graph, a plaintext content of the Wikipedia articles, and a full HTML package of the Wikipedia version used by Wikispeedia. These files contain a list of the articles used by Wikispeedia and their hyperlinks. The hyperlink graph lists articles and their connected components, labeled by article titles. These are not weighted and are simply direct connections. In total, there are 4,604 articles connected by 119,882 links. We plan to use this entire dataset in our project. It's likely that some articles cannot be reached by other ones, which is something we will account for in the data correction section.
## Data Correction
There is a chance that there are disconnected components of the graph. In that case, there is not much we can do in terms of data correction since it doesn't make sense to create new links. To account for this, is a path is unreachable (all linked nodes are visited), we will output something that states no path can be found. Furthermore, after getting shortest paths, we can manually traverse a few through Wikipedia directly to ensure these are valid paths. There is the caveat that the dataset is over 10 years old, and so some hyperlinks may no longer exist. Nonetheless, we expect these to be few and far between. 
## Data Storage
We will need to parse through the data present and create a directed graph where each node is an article and connections are based on outgoing hyperlinks. Each node will be implemented as a WikiNode object, containing a name and vector of pointers representing its outgoing links. The graph will be implemented using a map with keys being article names and values as WikiNode pointers. This would allow us to easily access random start/end articles. This implementation has a space complexity of O(V). 
## Algorithm 
We plan to implement Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm for our project. We had also considered using the Floyd-Warshall algorithm, but felt it would better to do smaller computations with each run rather than one large one and then storing the results. Also, because this is a directed graph, Dijkstra's is well suited for our dataset. Prior to running it, we will need to convert our data into a graph with  directed edges, with nodes/vertices representing websites and edges representing hyperlinks, where default edge weight of 1 is modified such that our algorithm adds the number of outgoing links from the destination over 500. This gives slight variation in edge weights, allowing all of Dijkstra's features to show, and conceptually this represents the fact that it is quicker to traverse a short article, which likely has fewer outgoing links, than a longer one. The division by 500 is included so that Dijkstra is not traversing solely on the basis of the outgoing links.
Our function will take start and end pages as well as the directed graph as inputs. Then, Dijkstra's algorithm will be run and then interrupted once we've reached the destination page. The shortest path, with the most optimal page size, will then be represented as a sequence of pages visited and returned as a vector of nodes. This can then be analyzed to note the number of nodes visited.  
We will also implement a breadth first search and iterative deepening search on the graph to find the shortest path (without considering the number of outgoing links). This way, we can compare the effectiveness of a more naive approach (BFS, IDS) with a more complex one (Dijkstra's). We plan on constructing a function for each algorithm so that the runtimes and result distances can be compared for a given start and end pair.
The following complexities are written using V for vertices/nodes and E for edges/links. For Dijkstra's, our target runtime is O(E*log(V)) and space complexity O(E). BFS has a target runtime of O(V+E) and space complexity O(V). Lastly, IDS will have a runtime of O(V+E) and space complexity O(d) where d is the depth of the shallowest solution.
## Timeline
Our goals consist of constructing a dictionary and graph class to represent our dataset as well as implementing each search function. By the mid-project checkin, we will have implemented the dictionary and constructed our graph class. We will also begin to work on Dijkstra's algorithm before this deadline. At that point, we will need to finish implementing the three search functions and their corresponding tests. We will finish up Dijkstra's and complete BFS in the third week. Then, IDS will be implemented along with our presentation and written report in the last week.
